								
									Word power made easy
LESSON 1- Personality types etc.

	SESSION 1 -

		1. Egoist - A person who cares about oneself and self benefit. "What's in it for me?" is the 					question he always asks.

		2. Egotist - A person who is high in self-pride and conceit. He cannot stop talking(boasting) about 			 himself and how great(albeit stupid) he is and how he is the master of everything and 				 should obviously be worshipped by all.

		3. Altruist - A person who is happy to help others and cares about the welfare of the opposite person more than his own welfare. 

		4. Introvert -  A person who prefers solitude and is often consumed by his own thoughts and 						actions, making it a point to overthink every tiny thing happening around him. He 					is afraid of social gatherings and crowds and would prefer the company of a person 					or two over a party.

		5. Extrovert - Opposite of an introvert, always needs to be around people. He cannot work alone and 				needs to have a whole lot of friends. He finds it very easy to socialise and open 					up to people.

		6. Ambivert - The mean of intovert and extrovert is ambivert and most people are ambiverts. 

		7. Misogynist - A person who hates all women and is strongly prejuidiced against them. He avoids 					women  in general. He might once be hurt by a women and hence drawn the conclusion 					that women are bad.

		8. Misogamist - A person who is afraid of marriage and legal commitment.

		9. Ascetic - The personality type who lives life in a very very simple manner. He does not lead a 				 very lavish and luxurious life but lives one which is just enough for the mere 					 existence of the body.

		10. Misanthrope - The person who abhorrs all the people. He hates mankind and most probably he 						  hates himself.



	SESSION 2- 

Ego means 'I' and alter means other. Hence all the words having ego refers to 'I' in some way or the other and the words having alter means other.

	1. Egoist.
	2. Egotist.
	3. Egocentric - A person who thinks he is the centre of this universe. This is an advanced form of 					egoist.
	4. Egomaniac -  A person who is obssessed with himself and his self desires, he is one step above  					egocentric and should be avoided.
		egomanical

	5. Altruism  -  The philosphy of helping others and caring about the benefit and welfare of the 					opposite person more than the welfare of oneself.
	6. Altruistic 

	7. to alternate - to skip one 

	8. alternate - the other possible thing 

	9. alternative - the other availabe options 

	10. to alter - to modify and to change something

	11. altercation - A very heated and serious argument between two people is known as altercation. 					  This is because the argument may be due to different (other) ideas, plans etc of 					  the two parties involved.

	12. alter ego - The 'other oneself'. Generally refers to a person with whom you are so close that 					you are like the mirror images of each other. You think, act and do alike things.


		SESSION 3- 
-> `verto` means to turn and the words introvert, extrovert and ambivert are based on this root, introvert made with intro and verto, ie, inward turning and so on. 

	1. ambidextrous - means to be able to use both hands for writing, ie, both hands having equal skill. Comes from ambi and dextrous; dextrous means skillfull and dexterity is a skill. (dexter- right hand in latin)

	2. Sinister- evil and dangerous, threatening.

	3. gache - an adjective for a clumsy and socially awkward person, comes from the french meaning of gauche which is left hand. noun - gaucherie 

	4. adroit - means skillful just like dextrous and comes from the word droit meaning right hand in french noun - adroitness is the opposite of gaucherie.



	Love, hate and marriage.

-> misien means to hate. misogynist, misogamist and misanthrope come from this root.
-> anthropos - mankind hence misantrope is the person who hates mankind..
-> gamy - means marriage.
-> gyne means women


	1. Philanthropist - A man who loves mankind to the extent of making charitable donations towards the well being of mankind. 

	2. Gynaecologist - A doctor of the female parts is a gynecologist..

	3. monogamy, bigamy and polygamy are related to 1, 2 or many marriages.	
	4. polyandry is the marriage of a woman to many husbands, made by the combination of poly and andros meaning male.

	5. asectic - comes from asketes meaning monk or hermit in greek. ascetism is the practice.



LESSON 2- ABOUT TYPES OF DOCTORS, HOW TO TALK TO DOCTORS.
	Session 4 -

We learn about 9 different types of doctors- 

	1. Dermatologist - The doctor who treats the diseases of the skin.
	2. Obstetrician - The doctor who perfoms delivery and takes care of the mother during and after the delivery period.
	3. Orthopedic - The doctor of bones.
	4. Opthalmologist - The doctor of the eyes.
	5. Cardiologist - The doctor of heart and the circulatory system.
	6. Neurologist - The doctor of brain and the nervous system.
	7. Psychatrist - The doctor of mental illness.
	8. Paediatrist - Doctor of babies and infants.
	9. Gynecologist - Doctor of the female body.


	Session 5- 

gyne means women and logy means science.
obstetrix means midwife who stood during the delivery of a baby, hence obstetrician is one who is specialised in performing the delivery of babies.



		1. Paediatrician - The doctor of infants. Comes from paidos (babies) and iatreia 							(healing). adj. paediatric.
		2. Pedagogy - The leading of children to development. Comes from paidos and agogos(leading).
		3. Pedagogue  -  A word whose meaning has deteriorated over the years to mean a normie 					and dogmatic teacher who is strait- laced and old fashioned.
		4. Demagogue - similar to the above, it means a corrupt and self centered leader who gains the attention of the mass by his speech, and once in power he misues the power for his own interests. Demagougery and demagogic are the noun and adjective forms of the word.

		5. Dermatologist - The doctor of skin comes from the word derma which means skin.
		6. Dermatitis - The general inflammation / irritation or infection of the skin.
		7. Taxidermy - The practice of stuffing the skin of animals. It is practiced by a taxiderm.
		8. Pachyderm - Animals like elephants and rhinos which have a very thick skin.
		7. Epidermis - Outermost layer of the skin.
		8. Hypodermic - Just under the skin.

		9 Opthalmologist - The doctor of the eyes come from the word opthalamos which means eyes. 
		10. Oculist - An old word for opthalmologist which comes from the word ocular meaning eye.
		11. Monocle - The single- eyed lens used by sailors.
		12. Binoculars - 
		13. Inoculate - A drug is inoculated into the body by making an eye on the skin and administering the drug.

		Opthalmologist should not be confused with optometrist or optician.

		14. Optometrist - measures the vision and prescribes the glasses for proper vision. Optometrist comes from optikos and metrics, eye and measurement.

		15. Optician - optometric optician - optometrist + optician, optician being the person who builds the lenses by grinding, cutting etc.


	Session 6- 

The straighteners - orthodontist and orthopaedist are made up of the word orho meaning straight.
	Orthodontist - The doctor who shapes teeth by braces 
	Orthopaedist - The doctor of bones.


Cardiology comes from the word kardios meaning heart.

	Cardiologist - The doctor of the heart
	Cardiogram - The electronically produced record of the heartbeats.
	Cardiograph - The machine used to create a cardiogram.

The word neurologist comes from neuron meaning 'nerve'. 
	
	Neuralgia- made by 'neuron'(nerve) and 'algia'(pain)
	Neuritis- inflammation of the nerves
	Neurosis - 'nerve' + 'osis'(abnormal/diseased condition.) Emotional or personality 				disorder
	Neurotic - Adjective of the above as well as a person suffering from neurosis.

The mind- psychosis comes from the words 'psyche'(spirit/soul) + 'osis'
	
	Psychiosis - Mental disorder
	Psychotic - Adj as well as noun for a person suffering from psychosis.
	Psychiatrist - The mental doctor.


Paediatrics is based on iatria which means medical healing.
	Geriatrics - Mental needs of the elderly.
	Based on 'geras' meaning old age.
	geriatrician 
	geritrics.
	